AlJabr
======

Toolkit for the creation and analysis of small finite groups.


Groups
------

In algebra, groups are sets of elements along with a binary operator that obey
the group axioms.

1. closure: for g and h in group G, g\*h is also in G
2. associativity: for g, h, and j in G, (g\*h)\*j = g\*(h\*j)
3. identity: for g and e in G with e the identity, g\*e = e\*g = e
4. inverses: for g in G, there exists g<sup>-1</sup> such that g\*g<sup>-1</sup> = g<sup>-1</sup>\*g = e


Representation
--------------

Groups are represented by a set of elements and a complete operator table.

Several functions are provided to create standard groups such as cyclic, dihedral, symmetric, and alternating groups as well as the direct product of two groups.

Groups can also be built by filling out an operator table one position at a time.  Portions of the table are automatically generated to guarantee the group axioms hold.

Once a group has been built, it can be viewed with a Cayley graph representation.  Each element is shown as a node, and group actions appear as edges between the nodes.  Sets of edges corresponding to multiplication by different group elements can be toggled off and on.

There are three graph layouts available: circle, nested, and separate.  Circle layout puts all nodes on a circle in the order determined by multiplication by the last activated element.  Nested layout puts nodes on concentric circles where the outside circle holds a cyclic subgroup generated by the last chosen element, and the interior circles hold nodes for the corresponding cosets.  Separate layout uses the same cyclic subgroup and cosets but arranges them in circles that lie next to each other.


How to Run
----------

AlJabr runs in web browsers and needs to be hosted by a webserver.  To host it, start up a webserver that gives access to the index.html file within the AlJabr top-level directory.  For example, if you have python (>=3) installed, navigate to the AlJabr directory and run

```
> python -m http.server 8000
```

This will start a server exposing that directory on port 8000.  You can then access the program by pointing your web browser to the URL `http://localhost:8000/test/builder.html`.

Similarly, you can run the tests by visiting `http://localhost:8000/test/test.html`.  Check out the javascript console for the test results.


Dependencies
------------

The external dependencies are currently linked from [cdnjs.com](https://cdnjs.com).

1. jQuery
2. underscore
3. d3
